docs(UPM-2878): EDB Cloud preflight checklist (#1962)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/edbcloud/beta/getting_started/01_understanding_qotas_in_azure.mdx

---

> title: Understanding quotas in Azure

Reviewer: I think we should get away from "quotas" here - how about calling this page something like, "Preparing your Azure account for BigAnimal"?

Reviewer 2: Done.

Redirects:
 - 01_check_resource_limits/e3
---

> The following sections help you plan for quotas (service limits) and Azure Service Provider registrations required by your cluster.

Reviewer: It seems like this page should start with some preface comments about why you should care about these planning activities. E.g., "BigAnimal is deployed inside your Azure account and so requires you to perform some Azure configuration", something like that, before diving in.

Reviewer 2: Changed the introduction.

[Managing service limits and constraints in Azure](01a_managing_quotas) describes how to check that your clusters meet these quotas and how to raise your resource limits, if needed.

### IP Address quota

> You need to increase the limit of `Public IP Addresses - Basic` and `Public IP Addresses - Standard` for the regions where you plan to deploy your clusters with the total number of clusters you plan to use. To understand the requirements, and recommended quotas, see the following sections.

Reviewer: The "managing service limits" page is the thing that should describe what the customer needs to do, right? This page should describe why BA requires changes to these things, e.g., "For every public-network cluster, BA deploys a dedicated IP address", et cetera.

Reviewer 2: added this under recommended limits:

"EDB recommends you to increase the Public IP addresses limits for the **Basic** and **Standard** type to the number of clusters you plan to deploy in a given region."

**Default quota**

The default public IP address limits for Public IP Addresses Basic and Public IP Addresses Standards is set to 10. See [Public IP address limits](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits#publicip-address) for more information.

**Recommended quota**

EDB recommends the following when requesting public IP address quota increases:

* Public IP Addresses – Basic: number of clusters you plan to deploy in a given region
* Public IP Addresses – Standard: number of clusters you plan to deploy in a given region

### vCPU quota

Any time a new VM is deployed the vCPUs for the VMs must not exceed the vCPU quota for the VM size family or the total regional vCPU quota. The VMs deployment fails if either of those quotas are exceeded. 

!!! Note
    The default number of total cores per subscription per region is 20. See [Virtual Machines limits - Azure Resource Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits#virtual-machines-limits---azure-resource-manager) for more information.

> In each region, EDB Cloud uses six ESv3 and six DSv2 virtual machine cores to manage your EDB Cloud infrastructure.

Reviewer: This section is written a bit brittle-y:

1. We should probably not describe the clusters as requiring N Esv3 cores; we'll be offering other VM families in short order.
2. It's possible for customers to end up with multiple DPs; we need to be careful about how the first sentence is worded:

```suggestion
To launch BigAnimal in a region, BA requires six Esv3 [...]
```

Reviewer 2: @ba-edb 
"We should probably not describe the clusters as requiring N Esv3 cores; we'll be offering other VM families in short order."

- I think I'll remove the whole N Esv3 explanation about number of cores? The user might not need to know this logic as long as we are giving an accurate recommendation on the number of required cores, correct?

- Should i list the Dv4 VM family in addition to the  ESv3 and six DSv2. Are there any more changes in with respect to the VM families used in BigAnimal?

- Who is the can help me with correct recommendations for the number of cores?

> Your clusters deployed in the region use separate ESv3 virtual machine cores. The number of cores depends on the Instance Type and High Availability options of the clusters you provision. You can calculate the number of ESv3 cores required for your cluster based on the following:

Reviewer: It's `Esv3` and `Dsv3`, not `ESV3` and `DSv3`, per Azure.

* Virtual machine instance of type E{N}Sv3 uses {N} cores. For example, an instance of type E64Sv3 uses 64 ESv3 cores.
* Cluster running on an E{N}Sv3 instance with high availability not enabled uses exactly {N} ESv3 cores.
* Cluster running on an E{N}Sv3 instance with high availability enabled uses 3 * {N} ESv3 cores.

As an example, if you provision the largest virtual machine E64Sv3 with high availability enabled, it requires (3 * 64)=192 ESv3 cores per region. EDB Cloud infrastructure requires an additional six ESv3 and six DSv2 virtual machine cores per region.

**Recommended quota**

EDB recommends the following when requesting Virtual Machine resource quota increases:
* Total Regional vCPUs: minimum of 100+ per designated region
* Standard ESv3 Family vCPUs: minimum of 50+ per designated region

> * Standard DSv2 Family vCPUs: minimum of 20+ per designated region

Reviewer: Why do we recommend 20?

Reviewer 2: @ba-edb does it depend on the average workload of the customer? what is a good recommendation?

Reviewer: No, it doesn't depend on it very closely - we just need 6 DSv2 to start with. But they might need more in the future, and we're going to be changing it... I think this okay for now.

> ### Virtual Machine (SKU) quota

Reviewer: This section overlaps heavily with the preceding section - perhaps they can be combined?

Reviewer 2: Merged the sections.

Reviewer 2: After looking at https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/troubleshooting/error-sku-not-available#solution-3---azure-portal, does it make sense to have two sections one for vCPU limits and the other for VM size restrictions?

Reviewer: Yeah, there are definitely two different things here. I can't see the old source to see what I was commenting on, but I think I was just reacting to common text between the two sections.

Reviewer 3: The SkuNotAvailable is more like VM that Azure does not own enough that type of hardware machine in the DC pod/zone/location. 

The vCPU limit is a limitation put to each azure customer to avoid they carelessly used too much and causing too much unexpected cost. (From Azure doc).

When you deploy your clusters in HA mode, EDB Cloud uses multiple availability zones in the region where you plan to deploy the cluster. EDB Cloud uses Standard DSv2 Family vCPUs to manage workloads and Standard ESv3 Family vCPUs to manage clusters.

**Recommended quota**

Ensure that all regions and zones designated for the deployment of your clusters have no SKU restrictions for the vCPU families used by EDB Cloud. `Standard_DS2_v2` and `Standard_E2s_v3` in zone 1,2,3 of every region designated for cluster deployment should have no restrictions.

### Azure Service Provider registrations

> EDB Cloud creates and manages [certain types of Azure resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/resource-providers-and-types). Ensure that the following Azure service providers have been registered in your Azure subscription. Absence of registration for any of these service providers in your Azure subscription leads to failure to create clusters in EDB Cloud.

Reviewer: > Ensure that the following Azure service providers have been registered in your Azure subscription

Again, this is handled in the page that describes the preflight script, yes? We're instructing customers to do a lot of things on this page that we should be handling automatically via the script.

Reviewer 2: In the new structure, we recommend all users (those who are using the script and those using the manual steps) to read through the understanding page. 

I have let this section be, as is, for the users not using the script.
